Replace DAG factory references with gusty in Dynamic DAGs and SQL guide (#2034)
astronomer/docs: learn/dynamically-generating-dags.md

This is a straightforward example that works only if all of the DAGs follow the same pattern. However, it could be expanded upon to have dynamic inputs for tasks, dependencies, different operators, and so on.

## Tools for dynamically creating DAGs

> A notable tool for dynamically creating DAGs from the community is [gusty](https://github.com/chriscardillo/gusty). `gusty` is an open source Python library for dynamically generating Airflow DAGs. Tasks can be created from YAML, Python, SQL and R Markdown files, as well as Jupyter Notebooks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A notable tool for dynamically creating DAGs from the community is [gusty](https://github.com/chriscardillo/gusty). `gusty` is an open source Python library for dynamically generating Airflow DAGs. Tasks can be created from YAML, Python, SQL, R, or Jupyter Notebooks.
```
Double check me on accuracy here with this edit - wanted to simplify the list a bit.

Reviewer: Gotcha, in that case I would just update it to "....SQL, R Markdown, and Jupyter Notebooks" so it's one list rather than two stuck together, if that makes sense.

> You can install gusty in your Airflow environment by running `pip install gusty` in the command line. Astro CLI users can use the package by adding `gusty` to the `requirements.txt` file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can install gusty in your Airflow environment by running `pip install gusty` from your command line. Astro CLI users can use the package by adding `gusty` to your `requirements.txt` file. 
```

> You can install gusty in your Airflow environment by running `pip install gusty` in the command line. Astro CLI users can use the package by adding `gusty` to the `requirements.txt` file. 

Reviewer: Assuming we want to be consistent throughout with using `gusty`, gusty, or Gusty. I would assume the first, based on our style guide, but there are a few places in here where it's in plain text.

To use gusty, create a new directory in your `dags` folder that will contain all gusty DAGs. Subdirectories of this folder will define DAGs, while nested subdirectories will define task groups within their respective DAGs.

> This example file structure will lead to the creation of 2 DAGs from the contents of the `my_gusty_dags` directory. `my_dag_1` contains two tasks each defined in their own YAML file. `my_dag_2` contains one task `task_0` defined from a YAML file, as well as the two task groups `my_task_group_1` and `my_task_group_2`, containing two tasks each. The latter task group contains two tasks defined from SQL files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following file structure will lead to the creation of 2 DAGs from the contents of the `my_gusty_dags` directory. `my_dag_1` contains two tasks each defined in their own YAML file. `my_dag_2` contains one task, `task_0`, defined from a YAML file, as well as the two task groups `my_task_group_1` and `my_task_group_2`, containing two tasks each. The latter task group contains two tasks defined from SQL files.
```

> Note that it is possible to use DAGs defined using gusty and regularly defined DAGs in the same Airflow environment by adding the regular DAGs to the `dags` directory outside of the `my_gusty_dags` folder.

Reviewer: Let's move this note below the example code snippets

```text
.
└── dags
    ├── my_gusty_dags
    │   ├── my_dag_1
    │   │   ├── METADATA.yaml
    │   │   ├── task_1.yaml
    │   │   └── task_2.yaml
    │   └── my_dag_2
    │       ├── METADATA.yaml
    │       ├── task_0.yaml
    │       ├── my_taskgroup_1
    │       │   ├── task_1.yaml
    │       │   └── task_2.yaml
    │       └── my_taskgroup_2
    │           ├── task_3.sql
    │           └── task_4.sql
    ├── creating_gusty_dags.py
    └── my_regular_dag.py
```

> In order to create DAGs from the `my_gusty_dags` directory, a `creating_gusty_dags.py` script calling gustys `create_dags` function needs to be present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create DAGs from the `my_gusty_dags` directory, you need a Python script that calls `gusty`'s `create_dags` function. In this example, a script called `creating_gusty_dags.py` in the project's root directory contains the following code.
```

```python
from gusty import create_dags

dag = create_dags(
    # provide the path to your gusty DAGs directory
    '/usr/local/airflow/dags/my_gusty_dags',
    # provide the namespace for gusty to use
    globals()
)
```

DAG-level parameters can be defined in the `METADATA.yaml` file:

```yaml
description: "An example of a DAG created using gusty!"
schedule_interval: "1 0 * * *"
default_args:
    owner: airflow
    depends_on_past: False
    start_date: !days_ago 1
    email: airflow@example.com
    email_on_failure: False
    email_on_retry: False
    retries: 1
    retry_delay: !timedelta 'minutes: 5'
```

> Tasks can be defined in YAML for any existing and local operator without requiring Python knowledge. The example below shows how to use gusty to define a BashOperator task in YAML. The `dependencies` parameter was set to make this task dependent on `task_1` having completed successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tasks can be defined in YAML for any existing and local operator. The example below shows how to use `gusty` to define a BashOperator task in YAML. The `dependencies` parameter was set to make this task dependent on `task_1` having completed successfully.
```
What does "existing and local operator" mean in this context?

```yaml
operator: airflow.operators.bash.BashOperator
bash_command: echo $MY_ENV_VAR
dependencies:
  - task_1
env: {"MY_ENV_VAR": "Hello!"}
```

> Learn more about gusty features in the [repository README](https://github.com/chriscardillo/gusty/blob/main/README.md). Additionally, you can explore two fully functional gusty environments, the [gusty-demo](https://github.com/chriscardillo/gusty-demo) and the [gusty-demo-lite](https://github.com/chriscardillo/gusty-demo-lite) in the respective repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more about gusty features in the [repository README](https://github.com/chriscardillo/gusty/blob/main/README.md). Additionally, you can explore two fully functional gusty environments, the [gusty-demo](https://github.com/chriscardillo/gusty-demo) and the [gusty-demo-lite](https://github.com/chriscardillo/gusty-demo-lite), to see several implementation examples.
```

```text
.
└── dags
    ├── my_gusty_dags
    │   ├── my_dag_1
    │   │   ├── METADATA.yaml
    │   │   ├── task_1.yaml
    │   │   └── task_2.yaml
    │   └── my_dag_2
    │       ├── METADATA.yaml
    │       ├── task_0.yaml
    │       ├── my_taskgroup_1
    │       │   ├── task_1.yaml
    │       │   └── task_2.yaml
    │       └── my_taskgroup_2
    │           ├── task_3.sql
    │           └── task_4.sql
    ├── creating_gusty_dags.py
    └── my_regular_dag.py
```

To create DAGs from the `my_gusty_dags` directory, you need a Python script that calls `gusty`'s `create_dags` function. In this example, a script called `creating_gusty_dags.py` in the project's `dags` directory contains the following code.

```python
from gusty import create_dags

dag = create_dags(
    # provide the path to your gusty DAGs directory
    '/usr/local/airflow/dags/my_gusty_dags',
    # provide the namespace for gusty to use

>     globals()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    globals(),
    # By default, gusty places a LatestOnlyOperator at the root of the DAG.
    # We can disable this behavior by setting latest_only=False
    latest_only=False
```

Maybe a regrettable UX ☹️

)
```

DAG-level parameters can be defined in the `METADATA.yaml` file:

```yaml
description: "An example of a DAG created using gusty!"
schedule_interval: "1 0 * * *"
default_args:
    owner: airflow
    depends_on_past: False
    start_date: !days_ago 1
    email: airflow@example.com
    email_on_failure: False
    email_on_retry: False
    retries: 1
    retry_delay: !timedelta 'minutes: 5'
```

Tasks can be defined in YAML for any standard and custom Airflow operator. The example below shows how to use `gusty` to define a BashOperator task in YAML. The `dependencies` parameter was set to make this task dependent on `task_1` having completed successfully.

```yaml
operator: airflow.operators.bash.BashOperator
bash_command: echo $MY_ENV_VAR
dependencies:
  - task_1

> env: {"MY_ENV_VAR": "Hello!"}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
env:
    MY_ENV_VAR: "Hello!"
```

Cleaner representation?

### gusty

A notable tool for dynamically creating DAGs from the community is [gusty](https://github.com/chriscardillo/gusty). `gusty` is an open source Python library for dynamically generating Airflow DAGs. Tasks can be created from YAML, Python, SQL, R Markdown, and Jupyter Notebooks.

You can install `gusty` in your Airflow environment by running `pip install gusty` from your command line. Astro CLI users can use the package by adding `gusty` to your `requirements.txt` file. 

To use `gusty`, create a new directory in your `dags` folder that will contain all `gusty` DAGs. Subdirectories of this folder will define DAGs, while nested subdirectories will define task groups within their respective DAGs.

The following file structure will lead to the creation of 2 DAGs from the contents of the `my_gusty_dags` directory. `my_dag_1` contains two tasks each defined in their own YAML file. `my_dag_2` contains one task, `task_0`, defined from a YAML file, as well as the two task groups `my_task_group_1` and `my_task_group_2`, containing two tasks each. The latter task group contains two tasks defined from SQL files.

```text
.
└── dags
    ├── my_gusty_dags
    │   ├── my_dag_1

>     │   │   ├── METADATA.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    │   │   ├── METADATA.yml
```

    │   │   ├── task_1.yaml
    │   │   └── task_2.yaml
    │   └── my_dag_2

>     │       ├── METADATA.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    │       ├── METADATA.yml
```

```python
from gusty import create_dags

dag = create_dags(
    # provide the path to your gusty DAGs directory
    '/usr/local/airflow/dags/my_gusty_dags',
    # provide the namespace for gusty to use
    globals(),
    # By default, gusty places a LatestOnlyOperator at the root of the DAG.
    # We can disable this behavior by setting latest_only=False
    latest_only=False
)
```

DAG-level parameters can be defined in the `METADATA.yml` file:

```yaml
description: "An example of a DAG created using gusty!"
schedule_interval: "1 0 * * *"
default_args:
    owner: airflow
    depends_on_past: False
    start_date: !days_ago 1
    email: airflow@example.com
    email_on_failure: False
    email_on_retry: False
    retries: 1
    retry_delay: !timedelta 'minutes: 5'
```

Tasks can be defined in YAML for any standard and custom Airflow operator. The example below shows how to use `gusty` to define a BashOperator task in YAML. The `dependencies` parameter was set to make this task dependent on `task_1` having completed successfully.

```yaml
operator: airflow.operators.bash.BashOperator
bash_command: echo $MY_ENV_VAR
dependencies:
  - task_1
env:
    MY_ENV_VAR: "Hello!"
```

> Note that it is possible to use DAGs defined using `gusty` and regularly defined DAGs in the same Airflow environment by adding the regular DAGs to the `dags` directory outside of the `my_gusty_dags` folder.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that to use gusty-generated DAGs and standard DAGs in the same Airflow environment, ensure that your standard DAGs are in your `dags` directory outside of the `my_gusty_dags` folder.
```

> Learn more about `gusty` features in the [repository README](https://github.com/chriscardillo/gusty/blob/main/README.md). Additionally, you can explore two fully functional `gusty` environments, the [gusty-demo](https://github.com/chriscardillo/gusty-demo) and the [gusty-demo-lite](https://github.com/chriscardillo/gusty-demo-lite), to see several implementation examples.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Learn more about gusty features in the [repository README](https://github.com/chriscardillo/gusty/blob/main/README.md). Additionally, you can explore two fully functional gusty environments: The [gusty-demo](https://github.com/chriscardillo/gusty-demo) and the [gusty-demo-lite](https://github.com/chriscardillo/gusty-demo-lite).
```
